README.md, before:

# BiGr -- **B**io**I**nformatics **Gr**ammar

## Overview

This directory represents a collection of the minimum interactions between biological data. It will be implemented as a set of Go interfaces to abstract away functionality from data layout on-disk. That is to say, there is no reason a simple DNA sequence must be represented as a string, but if a user needs to know what nucleotide is in the 1st or 100th position the DNA sequence must support that lookup. 

## Current Acitivity

Currently, I (Ryan H.) am collecting standard formats to determine the minimum opertions that each biological data type must support (no matter its on-disk sturcture). 

## Major Challenge

The current major challenge I foresee is defining interfaces that in some way state the validity of data structure. That is: How do I define that a DNA sequence cannot contain the letter Z? Or must at least contain the four nucleotides, if not the IUPAC ambiguous codes?

## Projected version 1 state

The version 1 state should define the operations across the base types of biological work, i.e., DNA, RNA, Protein, and others often built off of in other bioinformatics libraries such as Phylip and PDB.

## Projected version 2 additions

The version 2 state should define data/information lossiness and/or reversibility between types. That is to say that converting DNA to RNA has no loss of information because the operation is reversible, however RNA to Protein loses information because the reverse operation is possible, but may not result in the original RNA sequence.

Commit message:

Update README to state existence of interfaces AND functions between interfaces

README.md, after:

# BiGr -- **B**io**I**nformatics **Gr**ammar

## Overview

This directory represents a collection of the minimum interactions between biological data. It will be implemented as a set of Go interfaces and function to abstract away functionality from data layout on-disk. That is to say, there is no reason a simple DNA sequence must be represented as a string, but if a user needs to know what nucleotide is in the 1st or 100th position the DNA sequence representation must support that lookup as well as `Transcribe(dna DNASequence) RNASequence` function should be possible with the representation. 

## Current Activity

Currently, I (Ryan H.) am collecting standard formats to determine the minimum opertions that each biological data type must support (no matter its on-disk sturcture). My reasoning for stating this is that I want a more mathematical, but quick-to-process manner to work with biological data while being equally capable to switch out on-disk representations to optimize processing for different operations (slow DNA Sequence lookup, but fast DNA translation to Protein). By defining how biological data types interact interally (functions) and with the world around them (interfaces) I can swtich out how data is structured more easily. 

## Major Challenge

The current major challenge I foresee is defining interfaces that in some way state the validity of a data structure. That is: How do I define that a DNA sequence cannot contain the letter Z? Or must at least contain the four nucleotides, if not the IUPAC ambiguous codes? The best course is a `Validate() bool` method which returns internal validity, but this can be falsified by always returing `true` no matter the validity, which I do not want to allow. The next possibility is functions such as `ValidateDNA(d DNA) bool` which would allow me to check the validity of a type by asking for the proper attributes of its internal state. This latter is likely best, but would require enough methods in each interface to validate the data structure.

## Projected version 1 state

The version 1 state should define the operations across the base types of biological work, i.e., DNA, RNA, Protein, and others that are found in other bioinformatics libraries such as Phylip and PDB.

## Projected version 2 additions

The version 2 state should define data/information lossiness and/or reversibility between types. That is to say that converting DNA to RNA has no loss of information because the operation is reversible, however RNA to Protein loses information because the reverse operation is possible, but may not result in the original RNA sequence. If I can abstract out the measurement of this lossiness that would be great, but I doubt it is possible to do that simply.
